AI #1785: Add Invoice Detail and Billing Period datasets (#1900)
FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec: specification/datasets/billing_period/dataset.md

## Columns<!--SkipTOC-->

| Column                                                                    | Column Type | Feature Level | Allows Nulls | Data Type |
| :------------------------------------------------------------------------ | :---------- | :------------ | :----------- | :-------- |
| [Billing Period Created](#datasets.billingperiod.billingperiodcreated)   | Dimension   | Mandatory     | False        | Date/Time |
| [Billing Period End](#datasets.billingperiod.billingperiodend)           | Dimension   | Mandatory     | False        | Date/Time |
| [Billing Period Last Updated](#datasets.billingperiod.billingperiodlastupdated) | Dimension | Mandatory | False        | Date/Time |
| [Billing Period Start](#datasets.billingperiod.billingperiodstart)       | Dimension   | Mandatory     | False        | Date/Time |

> | [Billing Period Status](#datasets.billingperiod.billingperiodstatus)     | Dimension   | Mandatory     | False        | String    |

Reviewer: Trying to understand how records in this data are indentified by invoiceIssuer. As in how do I find the status of the billing period for a specific issuer?

Author: Yes, great point.  I'll get it added.

# Billing Period

> The Billing Period dataset is a supporting dataset that defines the time intervals and statuses associated with an invoice issuer's billing cycles for grouping and presenting [*charges](#glossary:charge) on invoices.  This dataset helps FinOps practitioners better understand how and when they can leverage [Cost and Usage](#dataset.costandusage) and [Invoice Detail](#datasets.invoicedetail) data for formal financial reporting and showback/chargeback processes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Billing Period dataset is a supporting dataset that defines the time intervals and statuses associated with an invoice issuer's billing cycles for grouping and presenting [*charges*](#glossary:charge) on invoices.  This dataset helps FinOps practitioners better understand how and when they can leverage [Cost and Usage](#dataset.costandusage) and [Invoice Detail](#datasets.invoicedetail) data for formal financial reporting and showback/chargeback processes.
```

> The Billing Period dataset is a supporting dataset that defines the time intervals and statuses associated with an invoice issuer's billing cycles for grouping and presenting [*charges*](#glossary:charge) on invoices.  This dataset helps FinOps practitioners better understand how and when they can leverage [Cost and Usage](#dataset.costandusage) and [Invoice Detail](#datasets.invoicedetail) data for formal financial reporting and showback/chargeback processes.

Reviewer: I wonder if "This dataset helps FinOps practitioners" is limiting. Does it only help FinOps practitioners is my point.

```suggestion
The Billing Period dataset is a supporting dataset that defines the time intervals and statuses associated with an invoice issuer's billing cycles for grouping and presenting [*charges*](#glossary:charge) on invoices.  This dataset helps with better understanding of how and when data can be leveraged from [Cost and Usage](#dataset.costandusage) and [Invoice Detail](#datasets.invoicedetail) for formal financial reporting and showback/chargeback processes.
```

Author: Sooo... I agree.  BUT.  We use this term "FinOps practitioners" in [A LOT OF PLACES](https://github.com/search?q=repo%3AFinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec%2FFOCUS_Spec%20%22finops%20practitioners%22&type=code) across the spec when describing the main persona consuming FOCUS data, so I was attempting to follow precedent (though, I'll admit, we are not consistent about this term in every single possible place).

Happy to avoid it here -- though I'd like to retain referring to the audience (see below suggestion, switching to "FOCUS consumers").  But, I hope your spidey sense is still tingling, because there are a couple dozen other places in the spec where we'd need to consider doing something similar. 

```suggestion
The Billing Period dataset is a supporting dataset that defines the time intervals and statuses associated with an invoice issuer's billing cycles for grouping and presenting [*charges*](#glossary:charge) on invoices.  This dataset helps FOCUS consumers know how and when they can leverage [Cost and Usage](#dataset.costandusage) and [Invoice Detail](#datasets.invoicedetail) data for formal financial reporting and showback/chargeback processes.
```

Reviewer: its always funny how often its a later case that triggers the spidey sense off, happy to maintain the audience and we should add an item on the backlog to review other locations of the use of Practitioner.

Author: FR #2002 created to represent this. Please leave comments there!

Resolving this.

> The Billing Period dataset is a supporting dataset that defines the time intervals and statuses associated with an invoice issuer's billing cycles for grouping and presenting [*charges*](#glossary:charge) on invoices.  This dataset helps FinOps practitioners better understand how and when they can leverage [Cost and Usage](#dataset.costandusage) and [Invoice Detail](#datasets.invoicedetail) data for formal financial reporting and showback/chargeback processes.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Billing Period dataset is a supporting dataset that defines the time intervals and statuses associated with an invoice issuer's billing cycles for grouping and presenting [*charges*](#glossary:charge) on invoices.  This dataset helps FinOps practitioners better understand how and when they can leverage [Cost and Usage](#datasets.costandusage) and [Invoice Detail](#datasets.invoicedetail) data for formal financial reporting and showback/chargeback processes.
```

## Columns<!--SkipTOC-->

| Column                                                                    | Column Type | Feature Level | Allows Nulls | Data Type |
| :------------------------------------------------------------------------ | :---------- | :------------ | :----------- | :-------- |
| [Billing Period Created](#datasets.billingperiod.billingperiodcreated)   | Dimension   | Mandatory     | False        | Date/Time |
| [Billing Period End](#datasets.billingperiod.billingperiodend)           | Dimension   | Mandatory     | False        | Date/Time |
| [Billing Period Last Updated](#datasets.billingperiod.billingperiodlastupdated) | Dimension | Mandatory | False        | Date/Time |
| [Billing Period Start](#datasets.billingperiod.billingperiodstart)       | Dimension   | Mandatory     | False        | Date/Time |
| [Billing Period Status](#datasets.billingperiod.billingperiodstatus)     | Dimension   | Mandatory     | False        | String    |
| [Invoice Issuer Name](#datasets.billingperiod.invoiceissuername)     | Dimension   | Mandatory     | False        | String    |

## Relationships<!--SkipTOC-->

> The Billing Period dataset is primarily used to provide context for the [Cost and Usage](#datasets.costandusage) and [Invoice Detail](#datasets.invoicedetail) datasets. It is joined using the Billing Period Start column available in those datasets.

Reviewer 3: Should the join key include `InvoiceIssuerName` as well?

Author: Yes, definitely.  Good catch.

```suggestion
The Billing Period dataset is primarily used to provide context for the [Cost and Usage](#datasets.costandusage) and [Invoice Detail](#datasets.invoicedetail) datasets. It is joined using the Billing Period Start and Invoice Issuer Name columns available in those datasets.
```

| Dataset A      | Dataset A Column   | Dataset B      | Dataset B Column   |
| :------------- | :----------------- | :------------- | :----------------- |
| Billing Period | Billing Period Start | Cost and Usage | Billing Period Start |

> | Billing Period | Billing Period Start | Invoice Detail | Billing Period Start |

Author: ```suggestion
| Billing Period | Billing Period Start and Invoice Issuer Name | Cost and Usage | Billing Period Start and Invoice Issuer Name |
| Billing Period | Billing Period Start and Invoice Issuer Name | Invoice Detail | Billing Period Start and Invoice Issuer Name |
```

## Requirements<!--SkipTOC-->

> BillingPeriod adheres to the following requirements:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
BillingPeriod MUST adhere to the following requirements:
```

* BillingPeriod MUST be present if the invoice issuer supports payable invoices.
* The presence of columns in BillingPeriod MUST adhere to the following requirements:
  * BillingPeriod MUST include [BillingPeriodCreated](#datasets.billingperiod.billingperiodcreated).

>   * BillingPeriod MUST include [BilledPerioEnd](#datasets.billingperiod.billingperiodcreated).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * BillingPeriod MUST include [BilledPeriodEnd](#datasets.billingperiod.billingperiodend).
```
